# Lake-Hillier

Lake Hillier is a hypersaline lake known for its distinctive bright pink color. The cause of this phenomenon in other hypersaline sites has been attributed to halophiles, Dunaliella, and Salinibacter, however, a systematic analysis of the microbial communities, their functional features, and the prevalence of pigment-producing-metabolisms has not been previously studied. Through metagenomic sequencing and culture-based approaches, our results evidence that Lake Hillier is composed of a diverse set of microorganisms including archaea, bacteria, algae, and viruses. Our data indicate that the microbiome in Lake Hillier is composed of multiple pigment-producer microbes, including Dunaliella, Salinibacter, Halobacillus, Psychroflexus, Halorubrum, many of which are cataloged as polyextremophiles. Additionally, we estimated the diversity of metabolic pathways in the lake and determined that many of these are related to pigment production. We reconstructed complete or partial genomes for 21 discrete bacteria (N = 14) and archaea (N = 7), only 2 of which could be taxonomically annotated to previously observed species. Our findings provide the first metagenomic study to decipher the source of the pink color of Australia’s Lake Hillier. The study of this pink hypersaline environment is evidence of a microbial consortium of pigment producers, a repertoire of polyextremophiles, a core microbiome and potentially novel species.

Sierra, M.A., Ryon, K.A., Tierney, B.T. et al. Microbiome and metagenomic analysis of Lake Hillier Australia reveals pigment-rich polyextremophiles and wide-ranging metabolic adaptations. Environmental Microbiome 17, 60 (2022). https://doi.org/10.1186/s40793-022-00455-9 
